src/lib/posts/boreal.md, before:

---
title: "All aboard the Boreal Express"
date: "2024-07-25"
description: "The summer of 2024, I was invited to a cross-country hackathon on a train. This journey transformed my thinking and taught me that I can build whatever I want and to go against the norms."
---

# All aboard the Boreal Express

In the summer of 2024, I had the opportunity to attend one of the coolest hackathons that's ever happened, the [Boreal Express](https://boreal.hackclub.com/)...

![Pasted image 20250829002450.png](/images/Pasted%20image%2020250829002450.png)

Now this wasn't any ordinary hackathon, this was a cross-country journey on a train, where you got to meet some of the coolest highschool hackers from around the world and build projects without any wifi, just the help of others.

But let's back up a little bit to how I actually got invited... 

A couple months before Boreal was going to happen, I was perusing the internet for fun hackathons in Vancouver where I could meet others nearby, and came across a cross-country hackathon on a train. I did not believe this could be real, an all-expenses paid 8-day expedition from Vancouver to Montreal for only highschoolers put on by this amazing organization called [Hackclub](https://hackclub.com/).

Hackclub runs some of the coolest events for high schoolers like [Apocalypse](https://apocalypse.hackclub.com/), a zombie themed hackathon in Toronto, to events like Arcade, where you work on projects and redeem hours for free stuff like hardware. 

![Pasted image 20250828215623.png](/images/Pasted%20image%2020250828215623.png)

The Boreal Express was an invite-only hackathon, you had to submit projects to get accepted, similar to Hack the North and other hackathons, but on a smaller scale. Now around this time, I hadn't actually have made too many projects aside from some small apps and stuff that never really got anywhere, but I did have this one hackathon project I build for a 12h local hackathon that got #1 so it was really my one shot at getting an invite to the Boreal Express...

I wasn't too proud of this project, but it was kind of a neat concept around helping to prevent school shootings, so I submitted it and hoped for the best!

A couple weeks later, I don't actually here anything aside from other people getting rejected, but then a couple weeks before the Boreal Express was going to happen, I got an acceptance letter, I was in for one of the coolest experiences of my life :D

Fast-forward a couple of weeks, I get my flights booked with the organizers, and I take a ferry over with my family to Vancouver and I'm off on my way to Boreal Express.

The entire group was set to meet on Jericho beach at sunset, and I got to meet lots of cool people like [Angad](https://angad.me/) who I was feeding the bunnies with, Advay (my roomate) and a bunch of other really interesting hackers! 

![Pasted image 20250828225424.png](/images/Pasted%20image%2020250828225424.png)

I was pretty shy because this was one of my very first events I'd been too and I was all alone, but after a bit of awkwardness I started to talk to a bunch of people about some common passions and learnt a bunch of cool stuff about radio's, docker and other things. 

Learning from this experience, I think it's incredibly important to just have deep conversations with people. You learn such an insane amount and form incredibly strong connections with those people, I wish I talked a bit more to others but I still learned a lot nonetheless.

![Pasted image 20250828221741.png](/images/Pasted%20image%2020250828221741.png)

After the sunset, we fooled around on the beach, had some Poke, tried to set off some fireworks (but the police were faster), and all huddled around to finish the night off with our own [Boreal song](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mKQDGMpJNws) from [Woody and his group](https://woodykeppel.com/) (you'll hear more about them soon, they're very interesting people). 

We met back at a little hostel right by the beach, and then chatted about until we couldn't stay awake anymore. Something I took away from this was that sleep actually comes last during events like these, you miss a lot of interesting stuff when you sleep, and it's kind of that time where you form deep connections with people.

![Pasted image 20250828225849.png](/images/Pasted%20image%2020250828225849.png)

On day 2, we ate some breakfast and hopped on a bus to get to the VIA rail headquarters. It was this really cool old-fashioned style building and we got a bunch of swag and stickers as soon as we arrived.

We all got these cool yellow buffs that said "VIA rail" and "hackclub" on them, aswell as some "sleep deprived" stickers. Lots of people also brought stuff for all the participants like 3D printed trains, keychains, candy everything.

I didn't bring anything like lots of the others, but in the future, I'll probably bring stickers to all the events I go too, because free stuff is amazing :D

![Pasted image 20250828224618.png](/images/Pasted%20image%2020250828224618.png)
![Pasted image 20250828230733.png](/images/Pasted%20image%2020250828230733.png)

After arriving, the organizers held the opening ceremony where we got to hear some talks from ministers, the VIA rail higher-ups and of course from the organizers Deven, Zach, Christina and others. 

Most of the people had arrived for the hackathon by now, so there were LOTS more people and the room was nearly packed! There were hackers from Greece, Australia, the US, germany, literally EVERYWHERE, it was really amazing!

![Pasted image 20250828224701.png](/images/Pasted%20image%2020250828224701.png)
![Pasted image 20250828224847.png](/images/Pasted%20image%2020250828224847.png)

We then went out to science world for lunch, where we had kind of like an information presentation for the train, and then we all fooled around at the playground, must've been very interesting seeing 50 kids all with yellow buffs with "hackclub" on them running around a playground! 

I had also forgotten to pack my passport though, so I met up with one of my family members who brought me my passport. Luckily they were going to a day trip in Vancouver, and luckily I noticed, because if I didn't have it, I would've had lots of trouble flying back to Vancouver from Montreal!

![Pasted image 20250828225130.png](/images/Pasted%20image%2020250828225130.png)

We then headed back to the VIA rail station to begin our journey... We all hopped into a group photo, and then we made our way to our train and finally departed. 

Looking back it all seems like a blur, but it was a really exciting and pivotal moment in my life. This was my first time doing something like this (aside from some smaller local hackathons) and it just changes your mindset so much on life.
![Pasted image 20250828225333.png](/images/Pasted%20image%2020250828225333.png)

On board, we were presented with our rooms, and then toured around the train a bit to get used to the different rooms, and then the train left on it's merry way. 

The VIA rail train was still open to the public, but we had pretty much the entirety of the front, so we probably had like 5 or so carriages all to our selves. The rooms were spread out in a couple carriages, and there were small showers onboard in the corners of the carriages.

![Pasted image 20250828233427.png](/images/Pasted%20image%2020250828233427.png)

On board the train, there were also **350 cans of celsius to promote all-nighters**. 

Growing up, I was taught to be responsible and sleep at reasonable hours, so not sleeping was a huge mindset shift for me. And looking back at all these small experiences, they fundamentally changed me as a person and this is one of the reasons I love attending events like these.

![Pasted image 20250828234556.png](/images/Pasted%20image%2020250828234556.png)

The Boreal Express also had this really cool server setup by [Alex Park](https://github.com/alx-alexpark) where we could all share files and host stuff to be externalized. 

Because we didn't have any internet or anything on the train, we also needed somewhere where we could access documentation and stuff if we needed it. And while the system wasn't perfect, it definitely helped alot of people.

All of us had setup our own tailscale accounts and gotten used to the server before the event started so we could add whatever we want to it beforehand.

The server also introduced me to the terminal. Yes... I had barely touched the terminal before the Boreal Express, and this idea that you could interact with servers and stuff really changed how I looked at programming and will definitely inspire me to grow away from just building websites and apps.

![Pasted image 20250828234612.png](/images/Pasted%20image%2020250828234612.png)

The meals were also **amazing** on the train. I have many allergies and they were able to accommodate lots of stuff for me, and we were served like 3 course meals with lamb chops and just generally amazing food. I can't give enough thanks for Hackclub to providing this opportunity, it was absolutely amazing!

There were also snacks onboard that you could grab anytime, refreshments and stuff too, is was pretty sweet.

![Pasted image 20250828234858.png](/images/Pasted%20image%2020250828234858.png)

Being on the Boreal and seeing all the landscape around us was beautiful :D

I live in Canada, but I never really got the opportunity to see the more remote area's only accessible by train, and it was so eye-opening to see what lies beyond large metropolitan area's. This will definitely inspire me to get out of my comfort more often and do cool things like this!

![Pasted image 20250829002642.png](/images/Pasted%20image%2020250829002642.png)

Now today I didn't actually do any programming, I was meeting new people, getting a feel for the train and participating in all the activities, but the programming grind will commence soon. 

Now before we went to sleep, we actually crossed through a bunch of wildfires happening around, it's a pretty common thing in Canada to get wild fires during the summer, but it was still pretty scary and *hopefully it won't affect our journey later*.

![Pasted image 20250829003156.png](/images/Pasted%20image%2020250829003156.png)

Anyways, it was time to get a good nights rest, so I clocked out for the night in our room awaiting whatever will happen next in our journey aboard the Boreal.

I had a pretty nice sleep and woke up to one of the most surreal landscapes I had ever seen. I couldn't believe how fast it had changed, but we were now right by **Jasper national park**.

![Pasted image 20250829004820.png](/images/Pasted%20image%2020250829004820.png)

I had a nice breakfast with some of the friends I met on the train, and then it was time to get to programming. Now we were allowed to pretty much build whatever we want, but it was encouraged to do something related to the outdoors or something related to the server.

It was also encouraged to not just build one project, but instead build a bunch of smaller ones and learn a bunch from others.

So the first app I worked on was a little Wikipedia game where you could just like scroll wikipedia like reels. It was a pretty simple app, but I worked on it with Advay and it was a short kinda fun thing to make. I kinda just left it at that and then started on my second project, the Bore-ad service!

I love making interactive projects where people can like do something and have fun with it, so I thought that a fun project would be to have a little ad website on the server where people could post ads for their projects on the server. So I started working on this project, and got help from some other people whenever I ran into some issues.

Some fun events were also happening on the train though. We needed to set up decorations and stuff so we put up some lights that people had brought and added some other things to make it feel more homey.

![Pasted image 20250829005617.png](/images/Pasted%20image%2020250829005617.png)

Another thing that happened was one of the co-organizers [Zoya](https://github.com/zoya-hussain), setup a mini barista kitchen and made drinks for everyone which was pretty sweet!

![Pasted image 20250829005944.png](/images/Pasted%20image%2020250829005944.png)

There were also people running workshops and lightning-talks. Lightning talks are basically like mini stories that people share about something cool that happened in their life.

One of my favorite lightning talks was from [Charlie](https://github.com/crnicholson) who talked about how he accidentally recorded classified military activity when he flew one of his high altitude gliders, [stratosoar](https://github.com/crnicholson/StratoSoar-MK3) straight into a military compound. It's a really cool project and I'd highly suggest you check it out!

And then there were also workshops on things like ham radio's and how to use docker, it was just really cool hearing what other people are working on and their experiences.

We were all pretty focused on our projects, but unexpectedly we had been called into the main carriage at the front to hear some news from Zach and the other organizers. Everyone seemed pretty stressed and we learned that because of wild fires we'd have to turn around. We were around Jasper and around that time wildfires were destroying the city so it was not safe to continue.

Commit message:

more stuff on the blog

src/lib/posts/boreal.md, after:

---
title: "All aboard the Boreal Express"
date: "2024-07-25"
description: "The summer of 2024, I was invited to a cross-country hackathon on a train. This journey transformed my thinking and taught me that I can build whatever I want and to go against the norms."
---
# All aboard the Boreal Express

In the summer of 2024, I had the opportunity to attend one of the coolest hackathons that's ever happened, the [Boreal Express](https://boreal.hackclub.com/)...

![Pasted image 20250829002450.png](/images/Pasted%20image%2020250829002450.png)

Now this wasn't any ordinary hackathon, this was a cross-country journey on a train, where you got to meet some of the coolest highschool hackers from around the world and build projects without any wifi, just the help of others.

But let's back up a little bit to how I actually got invited... 

A couple months before Boreal was going to happen, I was perusing the internet for fun hackathons in Vancouver where I could meet others nearby, and came across a cross-country hackathon on a train. I did not believe this could be real, an all-expenses paid 8-day expedition from Vancouver to Montreal for only highschoolers put on by this amazing organization called [Hackclub](https://hackclub.com/).

Hackclub runs some of the coolest events for high schoolers like [Apocalypse](https://apocalypse.hackclub.com/), a zombie themed hackathon in Toronto, to events like Arcade, where you work on projects and redeem hours for free stuff like hardware. 

![](/images/Pasted%20image%2020250829155338.png)

The Boreal Express was an invite-only hackathon, you had to submit projects to get accepted, similar to Hack the North and other hackathons, but on a smaller scale. Now around this time, I hadn't actually have made too many projects aside from some small apps and stuff that never really got anywhere, but I did have this one hackathon project I build for a 12h local hackathon that got #1 so it was really my one shot at getting an invite to the Boreal Express...

I wasn't too proud of this project, but it was kind of a neat concept around helping to prevent school shootings, so I submitted it and hoped for the best!

A couple weeks later, I don't actually here anything aside from other people getting rejected, but then a couple weeks before the Boreal Express was going to happen, I got an acceptance letter, I was in for one of the coolest experiences of my life :D

Fast-forward a couple of weeks, I get my flights booked with the organizers, and I take a ferry over with my family to Vancouver and I'm off on my way to Boreal Express.

## The Meetup

The entire group was set to meet on Jericho beach at sunset, and I got to meet lots of cool people like [Angad](https://angad.me/) who I was feeding the bunnies with, Advay (my roomate) and a bunch of other really interesting hackers! 

![Pasted image 20250828225424.png](/images/Pasted%20image%2020250828225424.png)

I was pretty shy because this was one of my very first events I'd been too and I was all alone, but after a bit of awkwardness I started to talk to a bunch of people about some common passions and learnt a bunch of cool stuff about radio's, docker and other things. 

Learning from this experience, I think it's incredibly important to just have deep conversations with people. You learn such an insane amount and form incredibly strong connections with those people, I wish I talked a bit more to others but I still learned a lot nonetheless.

![Pasted image 20250828221741.png](/images/Pasted%20image%2020250828221741.png)

After the sunset, we fooled around on the beach, had some Poke, tried to set off some fireworks (but the police were faster), and all huddled around to finish the night off with our own [Boreal song](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mKQDGMpJNws) from [Woody and his group](https://woodykeppel.com/) (you'll hear more about them soon, they're very interesting people). 

We met back at a little hostel right by the beach, and then chatted about until we couldn't stay awake anymore. Something I took away from this was that sleep actually comes last during events like these, you miss a lot of interesting stuff when you sleep, and it's kind of that time where you form deep connections with people.

![Pasted image 20250828225849.png](/images/Pasted%20image%2020250828225849.png)

## All aboard!

On day 2, we ate some breakfast and hopped on a bus to get to the VIA rail headquarters. It was this really cool old-fashioned style building and we got a bunch of swag and stickers as soon as we arrived.

We all got these cool yellow buffs that said "VIA rail" and "hackclub" on them, aswell as some "sleep deprived" stickers. Lots of people also brought stuff for all the participants like 3D printed trains, keychains, candy everything.

I didn't bring anything like lots of the others, but in the future, I'll probably bring stickers to all the events I go too, because free stuff is amazing :D

![Pasted image 20250828224618.png](/images/Pasted%20image%2020250828224618.png)
![Pasted image 20250828230733.png](/images/Pasted%20image%2020250828230733.png)

After arriving, the organizers held the opening ceremony where we got to hear some talks from ministers, the VIA rail higher-ups and of course from the organizers Deven, Zach, Christina and others. 

Most of the people had arrived for the hackathon by now, so there were LOTS more people and the room was nearly packed! There were hackers from Greece, Australia, the US, germany, literally EVERYWHERE, it was really amazing!

![Pasted image 20250828224701.png](/images/Pasted%20image%2020250828224701.png)
![Pasted image 20250828224847.png](/images/Pasted%20image%2020250828224847.png)

We then went out to science world for lunch, where we had kind of like an information presentation for the train, and then we all fooled around at the playground, must've been very interesting seeing 50 kids all with yellow buffs with "hackclub" on them running around a playground! 

I had also forgotten to pack my passport though, so I met up with one of my family members who brought me my passport. Luckily they were going to a day trip in Vancouver, and luckily I noticed, because if I didn't have it, I would've had lots of trouble flying back to Vancouver from Montreal!

![Pasted image 20250828225130.png](/images/Pasted%20image%2020250828225130.png)

We then headed back to the VIA rail station to begin our journey... We all hopped into a group photo, and then we made our way to our train and finally departed. 

Looking back it all seems like a blur, but it was a really exciting and pivotal moment in my life. This was my first time doing something like this (aside from some smaller local hackathons) and it just changes your mindset so much on life.
![Pasted image 20250828225333.png](/images/Pasted%20image%2020250828225333.png)

On board, we were presented with our rooms, and then toured around the train a bit to get used to the different rooms, and then the train left on it's merry way. 

The VIA rail train was still open to the public, but we had pretty much the entirety of the front, so we probably had like 5 or so carriages all to our selves. The rooms were spread out in a couple carriages, and there were small showers onboard in the corners of the carriages.

![Pasted image 20250828233427.png](/images/Pasted%20image%2020250828233427.png)

On board the train, there were also **350 cans of celsius to promote all-nighters**. 

Growing up, I was taught to be responsible and sleep at reasonable hours, so not sleeping was a huge mindset shift for me. And looking back at all these small experiences, they fundamentally changed me as a person and this is one of the reasons I love attending events like these.

![Pasted image 20250828234556.png](/images/Pasted%20image%2020250828234556.png)

The Boreal Express also had this really cool server setup by [Alex Park](https://github.com/alx-alexpark) where we could all share files and host stuff to be externalized. 

Because we didn't have any internet or anything on the train, we also needed somewhere where we could access documentation and stuff if we needed it. And while the system wasn't perfect, it definitely helped alot of people.

All of us had setup our own tailscale accounts and gotten used to the server before the event started so we could add whatever we want to it beforehand.

The server also introduced me to the terminal. Yes... I had barely touched the terminal before the Boreal Express, and this idea that you could interact with servers and stuff really changed how I looked at programming and will definitely inspire me to grow away from just building websites and apps.

![Pasted image 20250828234612.png](/images/Pasted%20image%2020250828234612.png)

The meals were also **amazing** on the train. I have many allergies and they were able to accommodate lots of stuff for me, and we were served like 3 course meals with lamb chops and just generally amazing food. I can't give enough thanks for Hackclub to providing this opportunity, it was absolutely amazing!

There were also snacks onboard that you could grab anytime, refreshments and stuff too, is was pretty sweet.

![Pasted image 20250828234858.png](/images/Pasted%20image%2020250828234858.png)

Being on the Boreal and seeing all the landscape around us was beautiful :D

I live in Canada, but I never really got the opportunity to see the more remote area's only accessible by train, and it was so eye-opening to see what lies beyond large metropolitan area's. This will definitely inspire me to get out of my comfort more often and do cool things like this!

![Pasted image 20250829002642.png](/images/Pasted%20image%2020250829002642.png)

Now today I didn't actually do any programming, I was meeting new people, getting a feel for the train and participating in all the activities, but the programming grind will commence soon. 

Now before we went to sleep, we actually crossed through a bunch of wildfires happening around, it's a pretty common thing in Canada to get wild fires during the summer, but it was still pretty scary and *hopefully it won't affect our journey later*.

![Pasted image 20250829003156.png](/images/Pasted%20image%2020250829003156.png)

Anyways, it was time to get a good nights rest, so I clocked out for the night in our room awaiting whatever will happen next in our journey aboard the Boreal.

## Jasper & Misfortunes

I had a pretty nice sleep and woke up to one of the most surreal landscapes I had ever seen. I couldn't believe how fast it had changed, but we were now right by **Jasper national park**.

![Pasted image 20250829004820.png](/images/Pasted%20image%2020250829004820.png)

I had a nice breakfast with some of the friends I met on the train, and then it was time to get to programming. Now we were allowed to pretty much build whatever we want, but it was encouraged to do something related to the outdoors or something related to the server.

It was also encouraged to not just build one project, but instead build a bunch of smaller ones and learn a bunch from others.

So the first app I worked on was a little Wikipedia game where you could just like scroll wikipedia like reels. It was a pretty simple app, but I worked on it with Advay and it was a short kinda fun thing to make. I kinda just left it at that and then started on my second project, the Bore-ad service!

I love making interactive projects where people can like do something and have fun with it, so I thought that a fun project would be to have a little ad website on the server where people could post ads for their projects on the server. So I started working on this project, and got help from some other people whenever I ran into some issues.

Some fun events were also happening on the train though. We needed to set up decorations and stuff so we put up some lights that people had brought and added some other things to make it feel more homey.

![Pasted image 20250829005617.png](/images/Pasted%20image%2020250829005617.png)

Another thing that happened was one of the co-organizers [Zoya](https://github.com/zoya-hussain), setup a mini barista kitchen and made drinks for everyone which was pretty sweet!

![Pasted image 20250829005944.png](/images/Pasted%20image%2020250829005944.png)

There were also people running workshops and lightning-talks. Lightning talks are basically like mini stories that people share about something cool that happened in their life.

One of my favorite lightning talks was from [Charlie](https://github.com/crnicholson) who talked about how he accidentally recorded classified military activity when he flew one of his high altitude gliders, [stratosoar](https://github.com/crnicholson/StratoSoar-MK3) straight into a military compound. It's a really cool project and I'd highly suggest you check it out!

And then there were also workshops on things like ham radio's and how to use docker, it was just really cool hearing what other people are working on and their experiences.

We were all pretty focused on our projects, but unexpectedly we had been called into the main carriage at the front to hear some news from Zach and the other organizers. Everyone seemed pretty stressed and we learned that because of wild fires we'd have to turn around. We were around Jasper and around that time wildfires were destroying the city so it was not safe to continue.

We were going to turn the train around (honestly no clue how they did that), and then come back and then just continue the hackathon but at rest at the station.

I feel really bad for the organizers because they put so much thought into each activity that would happen at each station, and they had to re-book **every single flight**. But it still wasn't the end to the journey, we could hang out in Vancouver, do activities on the train and still learn a lot.

So we traveled back to the station, and then ended off the night with some karaoke. I then worked on my project for a couple hours and went to sleep in the morning as programmers do. I was actually kind of scared to have caffeine because I'm already pretty hyper so I didn't have any of the 350 Celsius's but I still stayed up quite late meeting people!

![](/images/Pasted%20image%2020250829161614.png)

## Vancouver Shenanigans

When I woke up, the train had parked right back at the station, but this still wasn't the end to our journey... Workshops, lightning talks and other activities were still happening aboard, my favorite workshop was the one by Angad where he kind of explained docker, and I didn't really actively follow it, but it inspired me to start using docker and server tools more often.

We also took a visit to check out Vancouver and stretch out our legs a bit! I was in Cara's group who did lots of the infra for the train, so it was interesting to learn about some server stuff from them. We went to this kind of Japanese hybrid restaurant which was pretty good and checked out some of the parks and stuff in Vancouver. We did accidentally get onto East Hastings though, which is one of the worst streets in Vancouver for crime, but we got out pretty fast.

![](/images/Pasted%20image%2020250829162045.png)

We got back and then I had a really nice talk with [Woody](https://woodykeppel.com/), who's a performer, comedian, musician, literally everything. He was probably the most interesting person I talked to, has had the opportunity to join Cirque de Soleil, and actively performs and did all the live music during the train ride.

They really brought the vibe to the train and it wouldn't have been the same without him and his group, "Waldo & Woodhead". They also wrote this song just for the train journey, ["our time"](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mKQDGMpJNws) :D

![](/images/Pasted%20image%2020250829162437.png)
